Add initial doc changes related to tracing provider and support for z… (#2884)
istio/istio.io: content/docs/tasks/telemetry/distributed-tracing/jaeger/index.md

---
title: Jaeger

> description: How to configure the proxies to send tracing requests to Jaeger.

Reviewer: Use active verb to convey intent:
```suggestion
description: Learn how to configure the proxies to send tracing requests to Jaeger.
```

weight: 10
keywords: [telemetry,tracing,jaeger,span,port forwarding,zipkin]
---

## Before you begin

> 1.  Setup Istio by following the instructions in the [Installation guide](/docs/setup/).

Reviewer: Avoid passive voice with prepositional  phrases.
```suggestion
1.  To set up Istio, follow the instructions in the [Installation guide](/docs/setup/).
```

>     Use the Helm chart with tracing enabled by setting the `--set tracing.enabled=true` option.

Reviewer: Ditto:
```suggestion
    Use the Helm chart with tracing enabled to set the `--set tracing.enabled=true` option.
```

1.  Deploy the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/#deploying-the-application) sample application.

## Accessing the dashboard

1.  To setup access to the tracing dashboard, use port forwarding:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl -n istio-system port-forward $(kubectl -n istio-system get pod -l app=istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 15032:15032 &
    {{< /text >}}

    Open your browser to [http://localhost:15032](http://localhost:15032).

1.  To use a Kubernetes ingress, specify the Helm chart option `--set tracing.ingress.enabled=true`.

## Generating traces using the Bookinfo sample

1.  When the Bookinfo application is up and running, access `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` one or more times
    to generate trace information.

> 1.  From the left-hand pane of the dashboard, select `productpage` from the Service drop-down list and click

Reviewer: Use bold to emphasize labels and other GUI elements:
```suggestion
1.  From the left-hand pane of the dashboard, select `productpage` from the **Service** drop-down list and click
```

>     Find Traces:

Reviewer: Use bold to emphasize labels and other GUI elements:
```suggestion
    **Find Traces**:
```

    {{< image width="100%" ratio="52.68%"
    link="./istio-tracing-list.png"
    caption="Tracing Dashboard"
    >}}

> 1.  Click on the top (most recent) trace to see the details corresponding to the

Reviewer: Avoid parenthesis; their meaning is never clear:
```suggestion
1.  Click on the most recent trace at the top to see the details corresponding to the
```

    latest request to the `/productpage`:

    {{< image width="100%" ratio="36.32%"
    link="./istio-tracing-details.png"
    caption="Detailed Trace View"
    >}}

1.  The trace is comprised of a set of spans,
    where each span corresponds to a Bookinfo service, invoked during the execution of a `/productpage` request, or

>     internal Istio component (e.g. `istio-ingressgateway`, `istio-mixer`, `istio-policy`).

Reviewer: Do not use Latin abbreviations. They cause confusion in non-native readers:
```suggestion
    internal Istio component, for example: `istio-ingressgateway`, `istio-mixer`, `istio-policy`.
```

---
title: Jaeger
description: How to configure the proxies to send tracing requests to Jaeger.
weight: 10

> keywords: [telemetry,tracing,jaeger]

Reviewer: The keywords determine the topics shown at the bottom of the page under "See also:" I would include things like span, port forwarding, and Zipkin at the very least.

---

## Before you begin

*   Setup Istio by following the instructions in the [Installation guide](/docs/setup/).

    Either use the `istio-demo.yaml` or `istio-demo-auth.yaml` template, which includes tracing support, or

>     use the Helm chart with tracing enabled by setting the `--set tracing.enabled=true` option.

Reviewer: This paragraph is confusing. Which alternative should the reader use? You do not need to provide all possibilities in a task. Pick the one that works best with your task and ask readers to use that. By the end of the sentence I had no clue what option you wanted me to use.

> * Deploy the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) sample application.

Reviewer: You link to the sample but not to the instructions on how to deploy it. I would be fine with just the link to the deployment instructions but ideally, you would link to both.

## Accessing the dashboard

> Setup access to the tracing dashboard by using port-forwarding:

Reviewer: Please use numbered steps in procedures. Numbered lists allow readers to follow the instructions much easier and to keep their place on the process. Avoid gerunds, the time space associated with that conjugation in English does not exist in other languages making the content a lot harder to grasp for non English native speakers. Use simple present instead. This comment applies to all prepositional phrases following the construct: by ... verb-ing
```suggestion
1. To set up access to the tracing dashboard, use port forwarding:
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl -n istio-system port-forward $(kubectl -n istio-system get pod -l app=istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 15032:15032 &
{{< /text >}}

> Access the dashboard by opening your browser to [http://localhost:15032](http://localhost:15032).

Reviewer: This sentence has the gerund problem too.

> It is also possible to use a Kubernetes ingress by specifying the Helm chart option `--set tracing.ingress.enabled=true`.

Reviewer: Do not use relative pronouns. The reference for the pronoun "It" is ambiguous. Remove the entire conditional sentence and make this a new step entirely.
```suggestion
1. To use a Kubernetes ingress, specify the Helm chart option `--set tracing.ingress.enabled=true`.
```

## Generating traces using the Bookinfo sample

> With the Bookinfo application up and running, generate trace information by accessing

Reviewer: Please use numbered steps and avoid the gerund. This comment applies to all steps in this section too.
